README.md, before:

# unittestmaker
Simplify unittest creation with recording

## Usage
```
$ python -m testMaker
```

## Example
Let's create a simple class:
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
	def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
		self.myName = name
		self.urName = None
		
	def meet(self):
		print("Hi! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
		self.urName = raw_input("> ")
		print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
		
	def whoami(self):
		if self.urName is None:
			raise Exception("I don't know you!")
		else:
			print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```
The aim is to create quickly a `unittest` script for this class.

Let's call `testmaker`:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m testMaker
Run commands: (type Ctrl+D to finish)
>>>
```
Now, by the same way if I had done with classic python interpretor, I will test my class:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
Run commands: (type Ctrl+D to finish)
>>> import Robot
>>> johnny=Robot.Robot()
>>> johnny.whoami()
    ^
Exception:I don't know you!
>>> johnny.meet()
Hi! My name is Johnny V. WHat's yours?
> Boris
Nice to meet you Boris
>>> johnny.whoami()
You are my friend Boris
>>>
```
After pushing Ctrl+D to exit, testMaker will create the script and run it to be sure recording is OK:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
>>> ^D
Building test script...
Running test script...
.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.002s

OK
OK, please indicate a name for your test:
>
```
Let's name our script now.
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
OK, please indicate a name for your test:
>robot1
Test script saved in test_robot1
Just type `python -m unittest tests.test_robot1` in order execute it.
Otherwise `python -m unittest discover` in order execute all tests in subdirectories.
$ 
```
The file tests/test_robot1.py has been created automatically. You can now type `python -m unittest tests.test_robot1` in order to re-run the test script when required.
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ `python -m unittest tests.test_robot1`
.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.002s

OK
```

### Generated unittest watch the print output!
Now, imagine you made few evolutions on your class. For example, we switch "Hi!" formula to "Good morning":
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
	def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
		self.myName = name
		self.urName = None
		
	def meet(self):
		print("Good morning! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
		self.urName = raw_input("> ")
		print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
		
	def whoami(self):
		if self.urName is None:
			raise Exception("I don't know you!")
		else:
			print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```
The aim is to create quickly a `unittest` script for this class.

Let's call `testmaker`:

Running the unittest will detect regressions since the stdoutput has changed:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m unittest tests.test_robot1
F
======================================================================
FAIL: test_robot1 (tests.test_robot1.Test_robot1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1305, in patched
    return func(*args, **keywargs)
  File "tests/test_robot1.py", line 29, in test_robot1
    call('Nice to meet you Boris')])
AssertionError: [call("Good morning! My name is Johnny V. WHat's yours?"),
 call('Nice to meet you Boris')] != [call(u"Hi! My name is Johnny V. WHat's yours?"), call(u'Nice to meet you Boris')]

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.003s

FAILED (failures=1)
```

### Generated unittest also watch the number of user inputs!
In the same way, if meet method required a new additionnal user input, the unittest will failed since it has been recorded with only 1 input ("Boris" in our example)
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
        def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
                self.myName = name
                self.urName = None

        def meet(self):
                print("Hi! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
                self.urName = raw_input("> ")
                print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
                print("How old are you?")
                self.urAge = raw_input("> ")

        def whoami(self):
                if self.urName is None:
                        raise Exception("I don't know you!")
                else:
                        print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```

```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m unittest tests.test_robot1
E
======================================================================
ERROR: test_robot1 (tests.test_robot1.Test_robot1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1305, in patched
    return func(*args, **keywargs)
  File "tests/test_robot1.py", line 27, in test_robot1
    johnny.meet()
  File "Robot.py", line 14, in meet
    self.urAge = raw_input("> ")
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1062, in __call__
    return _mock_self._mock_call(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1121, in _mock_call
    result = next(effect)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 127, in next
    return _next(obj)
StopIteration

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.003s

FAILED (errors=1)
```

### Generated unittest also watch the Exception raised

testMaker has recorded the raised exceptions and resulting unittest will ensure the same exceptions will be raised in the same way.
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
        def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
                self.myName = name
                self.urName = "Joe Doe" # <== replaced from None
                
        def meet(self):
                print("Hi! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
                self.urName = raw_input("> ")
                print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
                
        def whoami(self):
                if self.urName is None:
                        raise Exception("I don't know you!")
                else:
                        print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m unittest tests.test_robot1
F
======================================================================
FAIL: test_robot1 (tests.test_robot1.Test_robot1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1305, in patched
    return func(*args, **keywargs)
  File "tests/test_robot1.py", line 23, in test_robot1
    johnny.whoami()
AssertionError: Exception not raised

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.003s

FAILED (failures=1)
```
### Extra feature: assert function will be turned to unittest's assertTrue method
If you record an "assert" command in your recording, it will automatically be replaced by self.assertTrue method of unittest class.

Commit message:

Add install instructions on README.md

README.md, after:

# unittestmaker
Simplify unittest creation with recording

## Setup
You can retrive from github with:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/kavod/unittestmaker.git
```
Then, in the current directory (parent of the project folder), just type:
```
$ sudo pip install unittestmaker/
```
or, if you wish to install without root permissions:
```
$ pip install --user unittestmaker/
```
## Usage
```
$ python -m testMaker
```

## Example
Let's create a simple class:
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
	def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
		self.myName = name
		self.urName = None
		
	def meet(self):
		print("Hi! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
		self.urName = raw_input("> ")
		print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
		
	def whoami(self):
		if self.urName is None:
			raise Exception("I don't know you!")
		else:
			print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```
The aim is to create quickly a `unittest` script for this class.

Let's call `testmaker`:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m testMaker
Run commands: (type Ctrl+D to finish)
>>>
```
Now, by the same way if I had done with classic python interpretor, I will test my class:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
Run commands: (type Ctrl+D to finish)
>>> import Robot
>>> johnny=Robot.Robot()
>>> johnny.whoami()
    ^
Exception:I don't know you!
>>> johnny.meet()
Hi! My name is Johnny V. WHat's yours?
> Boris
Nice to meet you Boris
>>> johnny.whoami()
You are my friend Boris
>>>
```
After pushing Ctrl+D to exit, testMaker will create the script and run it to be sure recording is OK:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
>>> ^D
Building test script...
Running test script...
.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.002s

OK
OK, please indicate a name for your test:
>
```
Let's name our script now.
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
OK, please indicate a name for your test:
>robot1
Test script saved in test_robot1
Just type `python -m unittest tests.test_robot1` in order execute it.
Otherwise `python -m unittest discover` in order execute all tests in subdirectories.
$ 
```
The file tests/test_robot1.py has been created automatically. You can now type `python -m unittest tests.test_robot1` in order to re-run the test script when required.
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ `python -m unittest tests.test_robot1`
.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.002s

OK
```

### Generated unittest watch the print output!
Now, imagine you made few evolutions on your class. For example, we switch "Hi!" formula to "Good morning":
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
	def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
		self.myName = name
		self.urName = None
		
	def meet(self):
		print("Good morning! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
		self.urName = raw_input("> ")
		print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
		
	def whoami(self):
		if self.urName is None:
			raise Exception("I don't know you!")
		else:
			print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```
The aim is to create quickly a `unittest` script for this class.

Let's call `testmaker`:

Running the unittest will detect regressions since the stdoutput has changed:
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m unittest tests.test_robot1
F
======================================================================
FAIL: test_robot1 (tests.test_robot1.Test_robot1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1305, in patched
    return func(*args, **keywargs)
  File "tests/test_robot1.py", line 29, in test_robot1
    call('Nice to meet you Boris')])
AssertionError: [call("Good morning! My name is Johnny V. WHat's yours?"),
 call('Nice to meet you Boris')] != [call(u"Hi! My name is Johnny V. WHat's yours?"), call(u'Nice to meet you Boris')]

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.003s

FAILED (failures=1)
```

### Generated unittest also watch the number of user inputs!
In the same way, if meet method required a new additionnal user input, the unittest will failed since it has been recorded with only 1 input ("Boris" in our example)
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
        def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
                self.myName = name
                self.urName = None

        def meet(self):
                print("Hi! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
                self.urName = raw_input("> ")
                print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
                print("How old are you?")
                self.urAge = raw_input("> ")

        def whoami(self):
                if self.urName is None:
                        raise Exception("I don't know you!")
                else:
                        print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```

```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m unittest tests.test_robot1
E
======================================================================
ERROR: test_robot1 (tests.test_robot1.Test_robot1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1305, in patched
    return func(*args, **keywargs)
  File "tests/test_robot1.py", line 27, in test_robot1
    johnny.meet()
  File "Robot.py", line 14, in meet
    self.urAge = raw_input("> ")
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1062, in __call__
    return _mock_self._mock_call(*args, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1121, in _mock_call
    result = next(effect)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 127, in next
    return _next(obj)
StopIteration

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.003s

FAILED (errors=1)
```

### Generated unittest also watch the Exception raised

testMaker has recorded the raised exceptions and resulting unittest will ensure the same exceptions will be raised in the same way.
**Robot.py**
```python
#!/usr/bin/env python
from __future__ import print_function

class Robot(object):
        def __init__(self,name="Johnny V"):
                self.myName = name
                self.urName = "Joe Doe" # <== replaced from None
                
        def meet(self):
                print("Hi! My name is {0}. WHat's yours?".format(self.myName))
                self.urName = raw_input("> ")
                print("Nice to meet you {0}".format(self.urName))
                
        def whoami(self):
                if self.urName is None:
                        raise Exception("I don't know you!")
                else:
                        print("You are my friend {0}".format(self.urName))
```
```{r, engine='bash', count_lines}
$ python -m unittest tests.test_robot1
F
======================================================================
FAIL: test_robot1 (tests.test_robot1.Test_robot1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mock/mock.py", line 1305, in patched
    return func(*args, **keywargs)
  File "tests/test_robot1.py", line 23, in test_robot1
    johnny.whoami()
AssertionError: Exception not raised

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 1 test in 0.003s

FAILED (failures=1)
```
### Extra feature: assert function will be turned to unittest's assertTrue method
If you record an "assert" command in your recording, it will automatically be replaced by self.assertTrue method of unittest class.
